*: add 6.2.0 release notes (#9906)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-6.2.0.md

---
title: TiDB 6.2.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB v6.2.0 Release Notes

> Release date：August 16, 2022

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release date: August 16, 2022
```

    - Optimize the commit pipeline performance of the Apply operator ([#12898](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12898), @[ethercflow](https://github.com/ethercflow))
    - Support a new command-line flag `--config-info` in tikv-server that lists default and current values of all TiKV configuration items ([#12492](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12492), @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv))
    - Support dynamically modifying the number of sub-compaction operations performed concurrently in RocksDB (`rocksdb.max-sub-compactions`) ([#13145](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13145), @[ethercflow](https://github.com/ethercflow))

+ PD

    - Support the statistical dimension of CPU usage of a Region and enhance the usage scenarios of Load Base Split ([#12063](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12063), @[Jmpotato](https://github.com/JmPotato))

+ TiFlash

    - Refine error handling of the TiFlash MPP engine, thereby enhancing stability ([#5095](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5095), @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker), @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87))

>     - Optimize the comparison and sorting of UTF8_BIN and UTF8MB4_BIN collations [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294), @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the comparison and sorting of `UTF8_BIN` and `UTF8MB4_BIN` collations [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294), @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
```

+ Tools

    - Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Adjust the backup organization structure to fix backup failure caused by S3 rate limiting in large cluster backup. ([#30087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30087), @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Adjust the backup data directory structure to fix backup failure caused by S3 rate limiting in large cluster backup. ([#30087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30087), @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28))
```

    - TiCDC

>         - Reduce performance overhead caused by runtime context switch in multi-Region scenarios ([#5610](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5610), @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Reduce performance overhead caused by runtime context switching in multi-Region scenarios ([#5610](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5610), @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu))
```

        - Optimize redo log performance, and fix meta and data inconsistency problems ([#6011](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6011), @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96), [#5924](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5924), @[zhaoxinyu](https://github.com/zhaoxinyu), [#6277] https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6277, @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu))

    - TiDB Lightning

        - Add more retryable errors, including EOF, Read index not ready, and Coprocessor timeout ([#36674](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36674), @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)), ([#36566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36566), @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter))

    - TiUP

>         - When a new cluster is deployed using TiUP,  node-exporter will use the [1.3.1](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter/releases/tag/v1.3.1) version while  blackbox-exporter will use the [0.21.1](https://github.com/prometheus/blackbox_exporter/releases/tag/v0.21.1) version, which ensures successful deployment in different systems and environments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - When a new cluster is deployed using TiUP,  node-exporter will use the [1.3.1](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter/releases/tag/v1.3.1) version, and blackbox-exporter will use the [0.21.1](https://github.com/prometheus/blackbox_exporter/releases/tag/v0.21.1) version, which ensures successful deployment in different systems and environments
```

    - Fix the incorrect scope of the system variables `tidb_log_file_max_days` and `tidb_config` ([#35190](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35190), @[morgo](https://github.com/morgo))
    - Fix the issue that the output of `SHOW CREATE TABLE` is not compatible with MySQL for the enum or set column  ([#36317](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36317), @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014))
    - Fix the issue that when creating a table, the behavior of a `LONG BYTE` column is not compatible with MySQL ([#36239](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36239), @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014))
    - Fix the issue that `auto_increment=x` does not take effect on temporary tables  ([#36224](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36224), @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832))
    - Fix the wrong default value when modifying columns concurrently ([#35846](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35846), @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016))
    - (dup) 避免向非健康状态的 TiKV 节点发送请求，以提升可用性 ([#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906), @[sticnarf](https://github.com/sticnarf))

>     - (dup) 修复了 `LOAD DATA` 语句中列的列表不生效的问题 ([#35198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35198), @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang))

Author: Fixed in [88ca45c](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/9906/commits/88ca45c9e8d11e391e305d97f2560be04f1e0365)

    - (dup) Fix the panic issue caused by analyzing statistics when `max_sample_size` is set to `0` ([#11192](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11192), @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator))
    - Fix the issue that encryption keys are not cleaned up when Raft Engine is enabled ([#12890](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12890), @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie))
    - Fix the issue that the `get_valid_int_prefix` function is incompatible with TiDB. For example, the `FLOAT` type was incorrectly converted to `INT` ([#13045](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13045), @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge))
    - Fix the issue that the Commit Log Duration of a new Region is too high, which causes QPS to drop ([#13077](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13077), @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996))
    - Fix the issue that PD does not reconnect to TiKV after the Region heartbeat is interrupted ([#12934](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12934), @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies))

> + Tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Tools

```

>     - Backup & Restore (BR)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + Backup & Restore (BR)
```

>         - Fix the issue that BR does not clear the rate limit after finishing a rate-limited backup task

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that BR does not clear the rate limit after finishing a rate-limited backup task ([#31722](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31722), @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28))
```

>         - Fix the issue that BR does not clear the rate limit after finishing a rate-limited backup task
> ([#31722](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31722), @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that BR does not reset the rate limit after finishing a rate-limited backup task ([#31722](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31722), @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28))
```

---
title: TiDB 6.2.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB v6.2.0 Release Notes

Release date: August 16, 2022

TiDB version: 6.2.0

In 6.2.0, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

* TiDB Dashboard supports visual execution plans, allowing more intuitive display of execution plans.

> * TiDB Dashboard adds a Monitoring page for more efficient performance analysis and tuning.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Add a Monitoring page in TiDB Dashboard for more efficient performance analysis and tuning.
```

> * TiDB supports lock view to show the waiting information of optimistic transactions, facilitating quick locating of lock conflicts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The Lock View of TiDB feature supports showing the waiting information of optimistic transactions, facilitating quick locating of lock conflicts.
```

* TiFlash supports a newer version of storage format, enhancing stability and performance.
* The Fine Grained Shuffle feature allows parallel execution of window functions in multiple threads.

> * A new concurrent DDL framework: Less DDLs blocked and higher execution efficiency.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A new concurrent DDL framework: Less DDL statements blocked and higher execution efficiency.
```

> * TiKV supports automatically tuning the CPU usage, thus ensuring stable and efficient database running.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TiKV supports automatically tuning the CPU usage, thus ensuring stable and efficient database operations.
```

* Point-in-Time Recovery (PITR) is introduced to restore a snapshot of a TiDB cluster to a new cluster from any given time point in the past.

> * TiDB Lightning supports importing data to productions clusters in physical import mode.

Reviewer 4: 1.”TiDB Lightning supports importing data to productions clusters in physical import mode.“  needs to be modified to "TiDB Lightning supports importing data to productions clusters in table-level physical import mode."

2.Add a new feature of TiDB MD
When DM migrates incremental  data from MySQL to TiDB, it supports incremental data verification to check data consistency.

Author: We have already mentioned continuous data verification in this file, see https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/9906/files#diff-d29bf2d43d9f4861e58933e6deea892bc12416c947be01e43ed742443c64f396R180

> * TiDB Lightning supports importing data to productions clusters in physical import mode.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TiDB Lightning supports importing data to production clusters in the physical import mode.
```

> * TiDB Lightning supports importing data to productions clusters in physical import mode.

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB Lightning supports importing data to productions clusters in table-level physical import mode.
```

* BR supports restoring user and privilege data, making backup and restore smoother.
* TiCDC unlocks more data replication scenarios by supporting filtering specific types of DDL events.

> * A `SAVEPOINT` mechanism is introduced, with which you can flexibly control the rollback points within a transaction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The `SAVEPOINT` mechanism is supported, with which you can flexibly control the rollback points within a transaction.
```

> * TiDB supports adding, dropping, and modifying multiple columns or indexes with merely one `ALTER TABLE` statement.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TiDB supports adding, dropping, and modifying multiple columns or indexes with only one `ALTER TABLE` statement.
```

* Backing up and restoring RawKV across clusters is now supported.

> ## New Features

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## New features
```

    [User document](/optimizer-hints.md#merge) [#36122](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36122) @[dayicklp](https://github.com/dayicklp)

* Optimize the performance of aggregation operations in some analytical scenarios

    When you use TiFlash to perform aggregation operations on a column in an OLAP scenario, if serious data skew exists due to uneven distribution of the aggregated column, and if the aggregated column has many different values, the execution efficiency of `COUNT(DISTINCT)` queries on the column is low. In v6.2.0, new rewriting rules are introduced to improve the performance of `COUNT(DISTINCT)` queries on a single column.

    [User document](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_skew_distinct_agg-new-in-v620) [#36169](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36169) @[fixdb](https://github.com/fixdb)

* TiDB supports concurrent DDL operations

>     TiDB v6.2.0 introduces a new concurrent DDL framework, which enables DDL statements to be concurrently executed on different table objects and fixes the issue that DDL operations are blocked by DDL operations on other tables. In addition, TiDB supports concurrent DDL execution when adding an index on multiple tables or changing a column type.This improves the efficiency of DDL execution.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    TiDB v6.2.0 introduces a new concurrent DDL framework, which enables DDL statements to be concurrently executed on different table objects and fixes the issue that DDL operations are blocked by DDL operations on other tables. In addition, TiDB supports concurrent DDL execution when adding an index on multiple tables or changing a column type. This improves the efficiency of DDL execution.
```

    [User document](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_concurrent_ddl-new-in-v620) [#32031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32031) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)

* Optimizer enhances the estimation of string matching

>     In the string matching scenario, if the optimizer cannot accurately estimate the number of rows, it affects the generation of the optimal execution plan. For example, the condition is `like '%xyz'` or using a regular expression `regex ()`. To improve the estimation accuracy in such scenarios, TiDB v6.2.0 enhances the estimation method. The new method combines the TopN information of statistics and system variables to improve the accuracy and makes it possible to modify manually, thus improving the SQL performance.

Reviewer 3: > makes it possible to modify manually

Modify what?

>     In the string matching scenario, if the optimizer cannot accurately estimate the number of rows, it affects the generation of the optimal execution plan. For example, the condition is `like '%xyz'` or using a regular expression `regex ()`. To improve the estimation accuracy in such scenarios, TiDB v6.2.0 enhances the estimation method. The new method combines the TopN information of statistics and system variables to improve the accuracy and makes it possible to modify manually, thus improving the SQL performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In the string matching scenario, if the optimizer cannot accurately estimate the number of rows, it affects the generation of the optimal execution plan. For example, the condition is `like '%xyz'` or using a regular expression `regex ()`. To improve the estimation accuracy in such scenarios, TiDB v6.2.0 enhances the estimation method. The new method combines the TopN information of statistics and system variables to improve the accuracy and makes it possible to modify the match selectivity manually, thus improving the SQL performance.
```
@TomShawn PTAL

    [User document](/system-variables.md#tidb_default_string_match_selectivity-new-in-v620) [#36209](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36209) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

* Window functions pushed down to TiFlash can be executed in multiple threads

    By enabling the Fine Grained Shuffle feature, the window function can be executed from in a single thread to in multiple threads. It reduces the query response time significantly. This feature does not change user behavior. You can control the granularity of the shuffle by adjusting the value of the variables.

    [User document](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fine_grained_shuffle_batch_size-new-in-v620) [#4631](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4631) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

* TiFlash supports a newer version of storage format

    The new storage format relieves high CPU usage caused by GC in high-concurrency and heavy workload scenarios. This significantly reduces IO traffic of background tasks, thereby boosting stability under high concurrencies and heavy workloads. At the same time, space amplification and disk waste can be significantly reduced.

>     In TiDB v6.2.0, data is stored in the new storage format by default. When you upgrade TiFlash from earlier versions to v6.2.0, existing data inherits the previous storage format, and newly written data is stored in the new format. Note that if TiFlash is upgraded from earlier versions to v6.2.0 and has received new data, you cannot perform in-place downgrade on TiFlash, because earlier TiFlash versions cannot recognize the new storage format.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    In TiDB v6.2.0, data is stored in the new storage format by default. Note that if TiFlash is upgraded from earlier versions to v6.2.0, you cannot perform in-place downgrade on TiFlash, because earlier TiFlash versions cannot recognize the new storage format.
```

    For more information about upgrading TiFlash, see [TiFlash v6.2.0 Upgrade Guide](/tiflash-620-upgrade.md).

    [User document](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file) [#3594](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3594) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) @[jiaqizho](https://github.com/jiaqizho) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

* TiFlash optimizes data scanning performance in multiple concurrency scenarios (experimental)

    TiFlash reduces duplicate reads of the same data by merging read operations of the same data, and optimizes the resource overhead in the case of multiple concurrent tasks to improve data scanning performance. It avoids the situation where the same data has to be read separately in each task, or even the same data may be read multiple times at the same time, if the same data is involved in multiple concurrent tasks.

    [User document](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-toml-file) [#5376](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5376) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

> * TiFlash adds Fast Mode for data scanning to increase read and write speed by sacrificing data consistency (experimental)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* TiFlash adds FastScan for data scanning to increase read and write speed by sacrificing data consistency (experimental)
```

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* TiFlash adds Fast Mode for data scanning to increase read speed by sacrificing data consistency (experimental)
```

Reviewer 7: only for read, no affects to write speed

>     TiDB introduces Fast Mode in v6.2.0. It supports skipping consistency checks to increase the speed significantly. The Fast Mode is suitable for scenarios that do not require high accuracy and consistency of data such as offline analysis tasks. Previously, to ensure data consistency, TiFlash needed to perform data consistency checks during the data scanning process to find the required data from multiple different versions (called Normal Mode).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    TiDB introduces FastScan in v6.2.0. It supports skipping consistency checks to increase the speed significantly. FastScan is suitable for scenarios that do not require high accuracy and consistency of data such as offline analysis tasks. Previously, to ensure data consistency, TiFlash needed to perform data consistency checks during the data scanning process to find the required data from multiple different versions.
```

>     When you upgrade from an earlier version to TiDB v6.2.0, the default mode is Normal Mode for all tables, which ensures data consistency. You can set the Fast Mode or Normal Mode for each table independently. If the table is set to Fast Mode in TiDB v6.2.0, the mode setting will be disabled when you downgrade to a lower version, but this does not affect the normal data read. In this case, it is equivalent to Normal Mode that offers strong consistency read.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    When you upgrade from an earlier version to TiDB v6.2.0, FastScan is not enabled by default for all tables, which ensures data consistency. You can enable FastScan for each table independently. If the table is set to FastScan  in TiDB v6.2.0, it will be disabled when you downgrade to a lower version, but this does not affect the normal data read. In this case, it is equivalent to strong consistency read.
```

Reviewer 7: extra space here
"If the table is set to FastScan ^^ in TiDB"

    - TiUP

        - When a new cluster is deployed using TiUP,  node-exporter will use the [1.3.1](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter/releases/tag/v1.3.1) version, and blackbox-exporter will use the [0.21.1](https://github.com/prometheus/blackbox_exporter/releases/tag/v0.21.1) version, which ensures successful deployment in different systems and environments

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix the issue that a partition is incorrectly pruned if a partition key is used in the query condition and the collate is different from the one in the query partition table [#32749](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32749) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue that `SET ROLE` cannot match the granted role if there are capital letters in the host [#33061](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33061) @[morgo](https://github.com/morgo)
    - Fix the issue that columns with `auto_increment` cannot be dropped [#34891](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34891) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

>     - Fix the issue that `SHOW CONFIG` shows some configuration items that have been removed  [#34867](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34867) @[morgo](https://github.com/morgo)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `SHOW CONFIG` shows some configuration items that have been removed [#34867](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34867) @[morgo](https://github.com/morgo)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.2.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB v6.2.0 Release Notes

> Release date: August 16, 2022

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Release date: August 23, 2022
```

* TiFlash adds Fast Mode for data scanning to increase read and write speed by sacrificing data consistency (experimental)

    TiDB introduces Fast Mode in v6.2.0. It supports skipping consistency checks to increase the speed significantly. The Fast Mode is suitable for scenarios that do not require high accuracy and consistency of data such as offline analysis tasks. Previously, to ensure data consistency, TiFlash needed to perform data consistency checks during the data scanning process to find the required data from multiple different versions (called Normal Mode).

    When you upgrade from an earlier version to TiDB v6.2.0, the default mode is Normal Mode for all tables, which ensures data consistency. You can set the Fast Mode or Normal Mode for each table independently. If the table is set to Fast Mode in TiDB v6.2.0, the mode setting will be disabled when you downgrade to a lower version, but this does not affect the normal data read. In this case, it is equivalent to Normal Mode that offers strong consistency read.

>     [User document](/develop/dev-guide-read-in-fast-mode.md) [#5252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5252) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    [User document](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md) [#5252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5252) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)
```

    Starting from v6.2.0, TiDB supports setting the CPU usage rate of background requests using the TiKV configuration file, thereby limiting the CPU usage ratio of background operations such as automatically collecting statistics in TiKV, and avoiding the resource preemption of user operations by background operations in extreme cases. This ensures that the operations of the database are stable and efficient.

    At the same time, TiDB also supports automatically adjusting CPU usage. Then, TiKV will adaptively adjust the CPU resources occupied by background requests according to the CPU usage of the instance. This feature is disabled by default.

    [User document](/tikv-configuration-file.md#background-quota-limiter) [#12503](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12503) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger)

### Ease of use

* TiKV supports listing detailed configuration information using command-line flags

>     The TiKV configuration file can be used to manage TiKV instances. However, for instances that run for a long time and are managed by different users, it is difficult to know which configuration item has been modified and what the default value is. This might cause confusion when you upgrade the cluster or migrate data. Since TiDB v6.2.0, tikv-server supports a new command-line flag `-config-info` that lists default and current values of all TiKV configuration items, helps users to quickly verify the startup parameters of the TiKV process, and improves usability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The TiKV configuration file can be used to manage TiKV instances. However, for instances that run for a long time and are managed by different users, it is difficult to know which configuration item has been modified and what the default value is. This might cause confusion when you upgrade the cluster or migrate data. Since TiDB v6.2.0, tikv-server supports a new command-line flag [`—config-info`](/command-line-flags-for-tikv-configuration.md#--config-info-format) that lists default and current values of all TiKV configuration items, helps users to quickly verify the startup parameters of the TiKV process, and improves usability.
```

>     The TiKV configuration file can be used to manage TiKV instances. However, for instances that run for a long time and are managed by different users, it is difficult to know which configuration item has been modified and what the default value is. This might cause confusion when you upgrade the cluster or migrate data. Since TiDB v6.2.0, tikv-server supports a new command-line flag [`—config-info`](/command-line-flags-for-tikv-configuration.md#--config-info-format) that lists default and current values of all TiKV configuration items, helps users to quickly verify the startup parameters of the TiKV process, and improves usability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The TiKV configuration file can be used to manage TiKV instances. However, for instances that run for a long time and are managed by different users, it is difficult to know which configuration item has been modified and what the default value is. This might cause confusion when you upgrade the cluster or migrate data. Since TiDB v6.2.0, tikv-server supports a new command-line flag [`—-config-info`](/command-line-flags-for-tikv-configuration.md#--config-info-format) that lists default and current values of all TiKV configuration items, helps users to quickly verify the startup parameters of the TiKV process, and improves usability.
```

| TiKV | [quota.background-cpu-time](/tikv-configuration-file.md#background-cpu-time-new-in-v620) | Newly added | This configuration specifies the soft limit on the CPU resources used by TiKV background to process read and write requests. |
| TiKV | [quota.background-write-bandwidth](/tikv-configuration-file.md#background-write-bandwidth-new-in-v620) | Newly added | This configuration specifies the soft limit on the bandwidth with which background transactions write data (not effective currently). |
| TiKV | [quota.background-read-bandwidth](/tikv-configuration-file.md#background-read-bandwidth-new-in-v620) | Newly added | This configuration specifies the soft limit on the bandwidth with which background transactions and the Coprocessor read data (not effective currently). |
| TiKV | [quota.enable-auto-tune](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable-auto-tune-new-in-v620) | Newly added | This configuration specifies whether to enable the auto-tuning of quota. If this configuration item is enabled, TiKV dynamically adjusts the quota for the background requests based on the load of TiKV instances. |

> | TiKV | rocksdb.enable-pipelined-commit | Deleted | |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| TiKV | rocksdb.enable-pipelined-commit | Deleted | This configuration is no longer effective. |
```

### Others

- TiFlash `format_version` cannot be downgraded from `4` to `3`. For details, see [TiFlash v6.2.0 Upgrade Guide](/tiflash-620-upgrade-guide.md).
- In v6.2.0 and later versions, it is strongly recommended to keep the default value `false` of `dt_enable_logical_split` and not to change it to `true`. For details, see known issue [#5576](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5576).
- If the backup cluster has a TiFlash replica, after you perform PITR, the restoration cluster does not contain the data in the TiFlash replica. To restore data from the TiFlash replica, you need to manually configure TiFlash replicas. Executing the `exchange partition` DDL statement might result in a failure of PITR. If the upstream database uses TiDB Lightning's physical import mode to import data, the data cannot be backed up in log backup. It is recommended to perform a full backup after the data import. For other compatibility issues of PITR, see [PITR limitations](/br/point-in-time-recovery.md#limitations).

> - Since TiDB v6.2.0, you need to specify the parameter `--with-sys-table=true` when restoring data from MySQL schemas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Since TiDB v6.2.0, you can restore table in `mysql` schema by specifying the parameter `--with-sys-table=true` when restoring data.
```

- When you execute the `ALTER TABLE` statement to add, drop, or modify multiple columns or indexes, TiDB checks table consistency by comparing the table before and after statement execution, regardless of the change in the same DDL statement. The execution order of the DDLs is not fully compatible with MySQL in some scenarios.
- If the TiDB component is v6.2.0 or later, the TiKV component should not be earlier than v6.2.0.
- TiKV adds a configuration item `split.region-cpu-overload-threshold-ratio` that supports [online configuration](/dynamic-config.md#modify-tikv-configuration-online).

> - Slow query logs, `information_schema.statements_summary`, and `information_schema.slow_query`can export `binary_plan`, execution plans encoded in the binary format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Slow query logs, `information_schema.statements_summary`, and `information_schema.slow_query`can export `binary_plan`, which is execution plans encoded in the binary format.
```

> - Two columns are added to the `SHOW TABLE xx REGIONS` statement: `SCHEDULING_CONSTRAINTS` and `SCHEDULING_STATE`, which respectively indicate Region scheduling constraints in Placement in SQL and the current scheduling state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Two columns are added to the `SHOW TABLE ... REGIONS` statement: `SCHEDULING_CONSTRAINTS` and `SCHEDULING_STATE`, which respectively indicate Region scheduling constraints in Placement in SQL and the current scheduling state.
```

+ PD

    - Support the statistical dimension of CPU usage of a Region and enhance the usage scenarios of Load Base Split [#12063](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12063) @[Jmpotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)

+ TiFlash

    - Refine error handling of the TiFlash MPP engine, thereby enhancing stability [#5095](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5095) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

    - Optimize the comparison and sorting of UTF8_BIN and UTF8MB4_BIN collations [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)

+ Tools

    - Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Adjust the backup data directory structure to fix backup failure caused by S3 rate limiting in large cluster backup [#30087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30087) @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)

    - TiCDC

        - Reduce performance overhead caused by runtime context switching in multi-Region scenarios [#5610](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5610) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

>         - Optimize redo log performance, and fix meta and data inconsistency problems ([#6011](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6011)@[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)) ([#5924](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5924) @[zhaoxinyu](https://github.com/zhaoxinyu)) ([#6277](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6277) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Optimize redo log performance, and fix meta and data inconsistency problems ([#6011](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6011) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)) ([#5924](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5924) @[zhaoxinyu](https://github.com/zhaoxinyu)) ([#6277](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6277) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu))
```

    - Fix the issue that `SET ROLE` cannot match the granted role if there are capital letters in the host [#33061](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33061) @[morgo](https://github.com/morgo)
    - Fix the issue that columns with `auto_increment` cannot be dropped [#34891](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34891) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that `SHOW CONFIG` shows some configuration items that have been removed [#34867](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34867) @[morgo](https://github.com/morgo)
    - Fix the issue that `SHOW DATABASES LIKE …` is case-sensitive [#34766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34766) @[e11jah](https://github.com/e11jah)
    - Fix the issue that `SHOW TABLE STATUS LIKE ...` is case-sensitive [#7518](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/7518) @[likzn](https://github.com/likzn)
    - Fix the issue that `max-index-length` still reports an error in non-strict mode [#34931](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34931) @[e11jah](https://github.com/e11jah)

>     - Fix the issue that `ALTER COLUMN XX DROP DEFAULT` does not work [#35018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35018) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `ALTER COLUMN ... DROP DEFAULT` does not work [#35018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35018) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the issue that BR does not reset the rate limit after finishing a rate-limited backup task [#31722](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31722) @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)

## Contributors

We would like to thank the following contributors from the TiDB community:

- [e1ijah1](https://github.com/e1ijah1)
- [PrajwalBorkar](https://github.com/PrajwalBorkar)
- [likzn](https://github.com/likzn)
- [rahulk789](https://github.com/rahulk789)
- [virusdefender](https://github.com/virusdefender)
- [joycse06](https://github.com/joycse06)
- [morgo](https://github.com/morgo)
- [ixuh12](https://github.com/ixuh12)
- [blacktear23](https://github.com/blacktear23)
- [johnhaxx7](https://github.com/johnhaxx7)
- [GoGim1](https://github.com/GoGim1)
- [renbaoshuo](https://github.com/renbaoshuo)
- [Zheaoli](https://github.com/Zheaoli)
- [fanrenhoo](https://github.com/fanrenhoo)
- [njuwelkin](https://github.com/njuwelkin)
- [wirybeaver](https://github.com/wirybeaver)
- [hey-kong](https://github.com/hey-kong)
- [fatelei](https://github.com/fatelei)

> - [eastfisher](https://github.com/eastfisher): First-time contributer
> - [Juneezee](https://github.com/Juneezee): First-time contributer

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- [eastfisher](https://github.com/eastfisher): First-time contributor
- [Juneezee](https://github.com/Juneezee): First-time contributor
```

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix the issue that a partition is incorrectly pruned if a partition key is used in the query condition and the collate is different from the one in the query partition table [#32749](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32749) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue that `SET ROLE` cannot match the granted role if there are capital letters in the host [#33061](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33061) @[morgo](https://github.com/morgo)
    - Fix the issue that columns with `auto_increment` cannot be dropped [#34891](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34891) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that `SHOW CONFIG` shows some configuration items that have been removed [#34867](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34867) @[morgo](https://github.com/morgo)

>     - Fix the issue that `SHOW DATABASES LIKE …` is case-sensitive [#34766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34766) @[e11jah](https://github.com/e11jah)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `SHOW DATABASES LIKE …` is case-sensitive [#34766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34766) @[e1ijah1](https://github.com/e1ijah1)
```

    - Fix the issue that `SHOW TABLE STATUS LIKE ...` is case-sensitive [#7518](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/7518) @[likzn](https://github.com/likzn)

>     - Fix the issue that `max-index-length` still reports an error in non-strict mode [#34931](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34931) @[e11jah](https://github.com/e11jah)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `max-index-length` still reports an error in non-strict mode [#34931](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34931) @[e1ijah1](https://github.com/e1ijah1)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.2.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB v6.2.0 Release Notes

Release date: August 16, 2022

TiDB version: 6.2.0

> In 6.2.0, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In v6.2.0, the key new features or improvements are as follows:
```

* TiDB Dashboard supports visual execution plans, allowing more intuitive display of execution plans.

> * Add a Monitoring page in TiDB Dashboard for more efficient performance analysis and tuning.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Add a Monitoring page in TiDB Dashboard to make the performance analysis and tuning more efficient.
```

* BR supports restoring user and privilege data, making backup and restore smoother.
* TiCDC unlocks more data replication scenarios by supporting filtering specific types of DDL events.
* The `SAVEPOINT` mechanism is supported, with which you can flexibly control the rollback points within a transaction.
* TiDB supports adding, dropping, and modifying multiple columns or indexes with only one `ALTER TABLE` statement.
* Backing up and restoring RawKV across clusters is now supported.

## New features

### SQL

* The physical data compaction feature is in General Availability (GA)

    The TiFlash backend automatically compacts physical data based on specific conditions to reduce the backlog of useless data and optimize the data storage structure.

    There is often a certain amount of useless data in TiFlash tables before data compaction is automatically triggered. This feature lets you choose the right timing and manually execute SQL statements to immediately compact the physical data in TiFlash, thus reducing storage space usage and improving query performance. This feature is experimental in TiDB v6.1, and now is in General Availability (GA) in TiDB v6.2.0.

>     [User document](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-table-compact.md#ALTER-TABLE-COMPACT) [#4145](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4145) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    [User document](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-table-compact.md#alter-table-compact) [#4145](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4145) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)
```
